---
layout: post
title:  "My Road To Programming"
date:   2016-06-24 19:47:08 +0000
---



My primary focus over the past ten years has been poker. I was first introduced in college. I was instantly hooked. I found studying poker far more interesting than anything I was studying in school. Learning push/fold ranges, how to adapt to different ranges, leveraging a big stack, calculating ICM, general tournament strategy enthralled me. You could say I was instantly hooked. I saw the inherent risk, the gamble, and was cautious of it. I played small stakes online, and live with friends. I was able to turn $50 in 10k in a relatively short amount of time, all while doing something I loved. It was great! I was immersed in the community, and made good connections. I was weary of engulfing myself too much in this world. I had made many friends that dropped out of college to play poker professionally. I refused to do this because I thought a college education was more important. While in college, I worked a part time job, and was obsessed with poker. I played online most days, and with friends once or twice a week. 

I entered a backing agreement where my backer would pay all my entry fees, and we would split the profit 50/50. This was a very exciting deal for me, it enabled me to play higher stakes, and eliminated the financial risk. I right away had a big score, and was sitting comfortably. I was still finishing up school, studying political science, and I had a big question to answer...what am I going to do with a political science degree? I believe in the philosophy that you should do something you enjoy. With no clear answer as to what I could do with a political science degree that I would enjoy, I decided to pursue poker. I figured I was financially comfortable from the money I had made in poker thus far, and if it doesn't work out I could go find a job. 

Over the next couple of years I traveled across the country, to Canada, the Bahamas, Costa Rica to play poker. I made great friends, had great experiences, numerous successes. Life was pretty fun. However, another nagging question was emerging as I was in my late 20s...Is this something I want to still be doing when I'm 40? For me the answer was a clear NO. I knew that I would have to transition into something else. I thought about what else I could do that I would enjoy. I had ideas of staring my own small business, but never had enough capitol to feel comfortable to do so, plus never had an idea of what kind of business I would open. I wasn't too hard pressed to figure something out. I was still enjoying poker, still financially comfortable, and still young. 

The past two years have been a very different story. I haven't been winning as much, and therefor not as motivated to play. I've also entered my 30s, and in the poker world am surrounded by "kids" in their early to mid 20s. The question of what am I going to do with the rest of my life? became a frequent one. I knew I didn't want to do anything related to political science, so I thought about going back to school for a different degree. I had always wanted to learn how to code. I saw it as a cool skill to have. I thought I'd go back to school and get a CS degree. I told a friend about my plans, and he suggested I look into coding bootcamps, and he named flatiron specifically. I went home and did some research. 

I checked out flatiron's website, and found the intro to web development course. I didn't need to research any further. I thought the learn platform was exactly what I needed. I saw it as an opportunity to see if coding was something I would enjoy, and if I should pursue if further. 

I had read many stories of people that found coding, and fell in love with it. Like it was something missing from their lives, and now that they found it, they are complete. While that makes a good story, it's not the case for me. I could lie, and say that I absolutely love it, but the truth is I don't. Don't get me wrong though, I do enjoy it, I wouldn't be doing it if I didn't. I love the feeling I get when I figure out a lab, I love the feeling of being able to read code and know exactly what each piece of code is doing. The other side of the coin though is dealing with imposter syndrome, the frustration of not being able to figure something out, the fear that something's going to come up that completely overwhelms me. These are things that might cause some people to give up, and do something else. I do know that I don't want to give up, I want to overcome the challenge. From podcasts I've listened to, and blogs I've read, these seem to be common occurrences in this world. I think to myself if so many other people have overcome them, well then so can I. I want to look back on all of this and feel proud of myself. Whenever I feel these feelings rising up I remind myself of how far I've come already. In the the grand scheme of things it might not be very far, but I'm able to do things that utterly confused me just a couple months ago. I look forward to see what else I'll be able to do. And I have all the faith in the world with the learn platform, and the flatiron team. 
